INSTALL
=======
Author: Mike Bennett (wayv at stressbunny dot com)
Last Update: 24/04/2001


Contents
--------
1. Installation & Compiling
2. Using wayV
3. Requirements
4. Important Notes


Installation
------------
1. ./configure 
2. make
3. make install
   IF YOU'RE ALREADY USING wayV AND HAVE EDITED wayv.conf MAKE SURE AND
   BACKUP A COPY OF YOUR VERSION!!!! (see the file UPGRADING for more
   information)
4. look at doc/trained-gestures.jpg to see what gestures wayV is setup
   to recognize
5. wayV's two configuration files, wayv.conf and DEFAULT.wkey, are installed
   in /usr/local/share but it is possible to specify a different directory
6. to start wayV run the program wayv (by default installed in /usr/local/bin)

NOTE: If configure doesn't find XExtension and XTest you won't be able
      to send keypress' via wayV

Using
-----
Hold down the activation button (by default mouse button 2) and 
key(s) (see doc/HOWTO-wayv-config for further information) and 
move the mouse around.

When the button and key(s) are released look at the xterm wayV is 
running in. You'll see a grid filled in with 0s and 1s. The 1s should 
indicate the path followed by the mouse. 

If display output is turned on when you press the activation button 
and key(s) a white border will appear around the screen - with the 
path followed by the mouse highlighted in various colours.

NOTE: When you're inputting a gesture, if the display is on, its
best to wait till the white border appears before doing the gesture.


Requirements
------------
1. A flavour of Unix (development occurs mainly on Linux and earlier 
   versions were tested under Solaris and FreeBSD)
2. Running X server with a pointer, e.g. a mouse, trackball, etc
3. gcc and X libraries
4. make, gcc, autoconf, install - all the usual

Optional:
1. X server that supports X extension
2. X server that supports XTest (for sending fake keypress events)


Important Notes
---------------
1. There aren't many default actions associated with the gestures, if
   you draw a C Xcalc should start (presuming its in your path). Have
   a look at the file src/wayv.conf, specifically the Action sub-sections.
   Read doc/HOW-wayv-config to learn how to setup other actions.
2. Have a look at wayv.conf, specifically the Launch value, if 
   its M1 then mouse button 1 is the activation key, if its M2 then 
   its mouse button 2 and if its M3 then its mouse button 3, etc.
3. If the full screen input display is on and you press the activation
   button(s) WAIT till the white border FULLY appears before drawing
   a gesture.
4. Make sure the main configuration file wayv.conf and DEFAULT.wkey are in
   the default directory (usually /usr/local/share) or else specific where
   to find them on command line when starting wayV, e.g. wayv /etc/wayv.conf

